document the PodAndContainerStatsFromCRI feature (#39701)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/instrumentation/cri-pod-container-metrics.md

---
title: CRI Pod & Container Metrics
content_type: reference
weight: 50
description: >-
  Collection of Pod & Container metrics via the CRI.
---

<!-- overview -->

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.23" state="alpha" >}}

The [kubelet](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/) collects pod and
container metrics via [cAdvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor). As an alpha feature,
Kubernetes lets you configure the collection of pod and container
metrics via the {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="cri" text="Container Runtime Interface">}} (CRI). You
must enable the `PodAndContainerStatsFromCRI` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) and
use a compatible CRI implementation (containerd >= 1.6.0, CRI-O >= 1.23.0) to
use the CRI based collection mechanism.

<!-- body -->

## CRI Pod & Container Metrics

> With `PodAndContainerStatsFromCRI` enabled, the kubelet will poll the underlying container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `PodAndContainerStatsFromCRI` enabled, the kubelet polls the underlying container
```

runtime for pod and container stats instead of inspecting the host system directly using cAdvisor.
The benefits of relying on the container runtime for this information as opposed to direct
collection with cAdvisor include:

- Potential improved performance if the container runtime already collects this information
  during normal operations. In this case, the data can be re-used instead of being aggregated
  again by the kubelet.

- It further decouples the kubelet and the container runtime allowing collection of metrics for
  container runtimes that don't run processes directly on the host with kubelet where they are

>   observable by cAdvisor (e.g. VM based runtimes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  observable by cAdvisor (for example: container runtimes that use virtualization).
```

Collecting this information from the CRI will become the default and the current cAdvisor collection

> of metrics from the host will become fully deprecated in a future Kubernetes release.

Reviewer: Only make this commitment if it's one that SIG Architecture would 100% stand behind. If it's an ambition we have but we aren't promising to make it happen, avoid mentioning it here.

Author: It was a goal from the KEP, but I agree it's safer to remove it.
